Dear Alyson and Constance,

I’m excited to apply to the Senior UX Designer role and work with the NPR Visuals team. I’ve been a fan of the work you guys do since Brian Boyer put together a team of extraordinary folks several years ago. Around that time (2011-2013), I got a special window into the work you all were doing, through a personal friendship with former Visuals team member Danny Debelius. I was very early in my career, and primarily focused on cartography and web-based mapping. Conversations with Danny around that time, along with exciting technical trends (new technologies like D3 and vector maps, the rise and dominance of mobile) lead me deeper and deeper into the world of using data, graphics and maps as essential tools of digital storytelling. Since those early days, a lot has changed, but I’ve enjoyed growing with this budding sector of the news. 
 
The balance of my professional career has been in government and non-profit spaces. In these environments, you need to do a lot with a little. Budgets are tight, guidance is scant, yet expectations are still high. This has been a trial by fire, with the many successes and missteps. At the Department of Energy, I was responsible for everything from soup to nuts. I pitched my ideas, did most of the design, all of the UX/UI, and all of the development. I learned a ton, and got to work on some really neat things (see [portfolio](https://danieljwood.github.io/portfolio/#projects) for more).

Since joining the Urban Institute, I’ve been able to work closely with brilliant but stubborn researchers, evangelizing design and UX best practices that sometimes are not intuitive to them. Sometimes the result has been a success, like this feature on [Baltimore’s segregated lending problem](https://apps.urban.org/features/baltimore-investment-flows/). We knew that the trends in lending closely matched the racial breakdowns 

And to be quite honest, other times, I haven’t been able to successfully lobby for the user experience that I think is needed. Recently, we released a very powerful [tool for downloading highly tailored education data](https://educationdata.urban.org/data-explorer/schools/) from across five public datasets. Unfortunately, the subject matter experts had trouble articulating or picking an audience. Running on a shoestring budget, while trying to build a tool to leverage over a billion data points, we needed to be ruthless about prioritizing our primary audience, and we weren’t. This meant we were worried more about unlikely edge cases than about our average user, and the result is a less useful product. I’m still proud of the result, but I hope we can make strides in enhancing its usability. 

Coming to NPR would be an opportunity to take all of the hard-won lessons I’ve learned over the last 7 years and apply them to crucial journalism at an exciting time. I would love the opportunity to discuss some of my ideas about how we can thoughtfully build and lay out these often expensive, high visibility products with great efficiency, clarity and impact. I would also love to hear more about what you all have planned for the future of graphics and visuals at NPR. I hope we can have the chance to chat!

Best,
Dan Wood
